Create specs for customer service dashboard (#187)
PrestaShop/prestashop-specs: back-office/customer-service/customer-service/dashboard.md

If there is no message, then "No new messages" is displayed.

## MEANING OF STATUS

A simple reminder of the 4 status that can be applied to a discussion thread:

- Open
- Closed
- Pending 1
- Pending 2

## STATISTICS

An overview of the global activity of the customer service since the beginning with 5 indicators displayed:

- Total threads 
- Threads pending 
- Total number of customer messages 
- Unread threads 
- Closed threads 

## CUSTOMER SERVICE

### Settings wheel

When clicking on it, two options are displayed:

1) Show SQL query

After clicking on it, the sql query is displayed in a modal. The SQL query takes into account filters and sorts that have been done.

There are two buttons:

- Close: After clicking on it, the modal is closed
- Export to SQL Manager: After clicking on it, the SQL query is opened in Advanced parameters > Database > SQL Manager

2) Export to SQL Manager

After clicking on it, the SQL query is opened in Advanced parameters > Database > SQL Manage

### Bulk actions drop-down

This dropdown is enabled only if at least one message is selected, otherwise it's disabled.

There is 5 options:

1) Mark as "opened"

> After clicking on it, the status of the selected messages are changed for "opened" and a successfull message is displayed "The status of the selection has been successfully changed."

Author: @Julievrz this successfull message is new, could you please verify the it ? :)

Reviewer: Hi @marionf, there is a string that already exists: "The status has been successfully updated." in Admin.Notifications.Success 
Couldn't we keep this one? Or is this wording going to apply only when several messages are selected?

Author: This message will be displayed only when several messages are selected.
Maybe we can simply use the existing wording: "Successful update.", wdyt ?

Reviewer: I think we can use a more general wording, yes. We tend to prefer "Update successful" 😊 (without punctuation)

Author: Ok, so let's go for this one, thank you @Julievrz !

# SPECIFICATIONS - CUSTOMERS SERVICE > CUSTOMERS SERVICE PAGE

## MOCKUPS
https://www.figma.com/proto/axasD3Kyg52okWHqvWPN1I/PrestaShop---Customer-Service-(migration)?node-id=12%3A4083&scaling=min-zoom
https://www.figma.com/proto/axasD3Kyg52okWHqvWPN1I/PrestaShop---Customer-Service-(migration)?node-id=12%3A5267&scaling=min-zoom
https://www.figma.com/proto/axasD3Kyg52okWHqvWPN1I/PrestaShop---Customer-Service-(migration)?node-id=12%3A9835&scaling=min-zoom
https://www.figma.com/proto/axasD3Kyg52okWHqvWPN1I/PrestaShop---Customer-Service-(migration)?node-id=12%3A8042&scaling=min-zoom
https://www.figma.com/proto/axasD3Kyg52okWHqvWPN1I/PrestaShop---Customer-Service-(migration)?node-id=12%3A11958&scaling=min-zoom

## MESSAGES NOTIFICATIONS

When a new messages is sent, then it's displayed in the notifications in the header.

> If you click on it, the thread is opened (view page) and all the messages notifications are removed.

Author: No, I am talking of the bell in the header

![capture d'écran_2914](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13449658/102595828-8ddca400-4118-11eb-93d0-c3432435c93b.png)

If there is no message, then "No new messages" is displayed.

## MEANING OF STATUS

A simple reminder of the 4 status that can be applied to a discussion thread:

- Open
- Closed
- Pending 1
- Pending 2

## STATISTICS

An overview of the global activity of the customer service since the beginning with 5 indicators displayed:

- Total threads 
- Threads pending 
- Total number of customer messages 
- Unread threads 
- Closed threads 

## CUSTOMER SERVICE

### Settings wheel

When clicking on it, two options are displayed:

1) Show SQL query

After clicking on it, the sql query is displayed in a modal. The SQL query takes into account filters and sorts that have been done.

There are two buttons:

- Close: After clicking on it, the modal is closed
- Export to SQL Manager: After clicking on it, the SQL query is opened in Advanced parameters > Database > SQL Manager

2) Export to SQL Manager

After clicking on it, the SQL query is opened in Advanced parameters > Database > SQL Manage

### Bulk actions drop-down

This dropdown is enabled only if at least one message is selected, otherwise it's disabled.

> There is 5 options, see the improvement [#19197](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/issues/19197)

Author: It seems a good idea to let the user change the status from the listing for a single line (and also in bulk)
@prestascott what do you think ?

> There is 5 options, see the improvement [#19197](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/issues/19197)

Reviewer 2: I think it's a good improvement for the experience of the users and as @LouiseBonnard said, ux will stay consistent through our back office. 👍

> There is 5 options, see the improvement [#19197](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/issues/19197)

Author: Added to the spec here: https://github.com/PrestaShop/prestashop-specs/pull/187/commits/8d4921d4bc0757cdb78ff3c7931d0b91795c9c9c

The action can be canceled by clicking on the cross or on the cancel button.

After clicking on "Delete" button, the selected messages are deleted, a successfull message is displayed "The selection has been successfully deleted."

### Listing

**The messages sent through the contact form in front-office are only listed here if the contact has the "Save messages?" option enabled.**

This setting can be changed in Shop parameters > Contact > Contact, when editing the contacts.

If the option is disabled for the contact that the customer chooses, the message is simply sent to the contact's email address, and is not stored in PrestaShop.

#### Multistore

Only the messages created in the selected store or store group (through the context) are displayed.

Example, let's say I have the following confiuration:
- Group 1
  - Shop A
  - Shop B
- Group 2
  - Shop C
  
If I select group 1 as context, then the messages created in Shop A and Shop B will be displayed.

If I select Shop A as context, then the messages created in Shop A will be displayed.

If I select all shops as context, then the messages created in Shop A, Shop B and Shop C will be displayed.

> #### Select all / unselect all checkbox

Reviewer 3: Sorry, I can't find it on the mockup: is it two items of the bulk action dropdown, or do those buttons appear in some other place?

Author: I am talking of this checkbox allowing to select all / unselect all messages

![capture d'écran_2915](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13449658/102599329-9b485d00-411d-11eb-8e71-088adcd7a2e5.png)

Reviewer 3: Oh, that's why it was not listed as part of the bulk actions drop-down. I was wondering why it was not listed above instead. :-)

After checking the box, all the messages displayed on the page are selected or unselected.

#### Columns

There are 12 columns:

1) ID

It's possible to sort by id asc or desc and search by id.

2) Customer

> The firstname and lastname are displayed if the customer was logged in while sending the message. Otherwise, "--" is displayed.

Author: Yes, thank you I just added it :)

It's possible to sort by customer asc or desc and search by customer (firstname and/or lastname)

3) Email

The customer's email address is displayed.
It's possible to sort by email asc or desc and search by email

4) Type

> The type of the messsage selected by the customer in the contact form is displayed.

Author: It's the contact type (customer service, webmaster ...)

It's possible to sort by type asc or desc and search by selecting the type through the drop-down, where all contacts' title are displayed.

5) Language

> The language selected by the customer in front-office while sending the message is displayed.

Author: I just tried, it seems it's only the language used by the customer in the front office

> The language selected by the customer in front-office while sending the message is displayed.

Reviewer 3: I also tried yesterday, with PrestaShop 1.7.7, and when I changed the language in the back office, wrote an order message, and then went to the Customer Service page, I could see that the language displayed in this column had changed.

> The language selected by the customer in front-office while sending the message is displayed.

Author: Ahh, yes through the order page, you are right !

It's possible to sort by language asc or desc and search by selecting the language through the drop-down, where all enabled languages are displayed.

6) Status

The status of the message is displayed.

It's possible to sort by status asc or desc and search by selecting the status through the drop-down, where all status are displayed.

7) Employee

The first letter of the employee's firstname and his/her lastname are displayed if the message is assigned to an employee. Otherwise, "--" is displayed.

It's possible to sort by employee asc or desc and search by employee's lastname.

8) Messages

The customer's message is displayed and truncated if it contains more than 40 chars.

> It's possible to sort by message asc or desc and search by messages

Author: There is this behavior on a lot of BO pages (legacy and symfony), example below with the order page, where you can search by a customer and also sort the results in an increasing or decreasing way
But the arrows to sort are displayed only on hover, unlike legacy pages

![capture d'écran_2916](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13449658/102606545-2da12e80-4127-11eb-9830-b06da331ff09.png)

> It's possible to sort by message asc or desc and search by messages

Reviewer 3: Absolutely! But this behavior is applied to specific columns only, not to all the columns of a table like in the legacy pages, that's why I was asking about it. In your example, only the _ID_ and the _Customer_ columns can be sorted by ascending or descending order.

> It's possible to sort by message asc or desc and search by messages

Reviewer 3: My bad, the behavior stays the same, thanks @marionf!

9) Private

> The customer's message is displayed and truncated if it contains more than 40 chars.

Author: Damn ! Fixed, thanks :)

It's possible to sort by privacy asc or desc and search by selecting the privacy through the drop-down, where 2 options are listed: "yes" and "no".

10) Last message

The date and hour of the last customer's message is displayed.

It's possible to sort by date asc or desc and search by selecting a range of date through two datepicker: "from" and "to"

11) Shop

If the multistore is enabled and several shops have been configured, then this column is displayed.
The name of the shop where the message was sent is displayed.

It's not possible to sort or perform a search for this column.

12) Actions

There are two actions:

- View, the main one:

After clicking on it, the thread is opened in the same tab.
This action can also be performed by clicking on a line.

- Delete, the second one:

After clicking on it, a modal is opened asking to confirm or cancel the action: "Are you sure you want to delete the selected item(s)?"

The action can be canceled by clicking on the cross or on the cancel button.

> After clicking on "Delete" button, the message is deleted and a successfull message is displayed "Successful deletion."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After clicking on "Delete" button, the message is deleted and a successful message is displayed "Successful deletion."
```

#### Search

Below, the same behavior as others listing:

By default, the search button is disabled. It becomes enabled when something is filled in a search field.

After clicking on "Search", the search is applied and the messages matching with the search are displayed

If no results are found, then a message "No records found" is displayed.

After clicking on "Search", this button is disabled and a "Reset" button is displayed.

After clicking on "Reset", the search is removed and all messages are displayed.

#### Pagination

The pagination of the list starts when there are more than 20 messages.

The merchant can select the number of messages displayed through a drop-down: 20, 50, 300, 1000

When there are more results than the number selected, the merchant can navigate through pages.

> If a sort and/or a search have been done, they should be keeped after changing page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If a sort and/or a search have been done, results should be kept when moving on to the next page.
```

## CONTACT OPTIONS

> The user can edit 2 options, which apply to all contacts:

Reviewer 3: Or 'customers'? I'm getting confused! 😄

1) **Allow file uploading**: This toggle allows the merchant to choose if he/she wants to allow his/her visitors to upload files through the contact form.

It's enabled by default.

When enabled, an optional field "Attachment" is displayed in the front-office's contact form and a "choose file" CTA allows to select a file.

> A tooltip is available: "Allow customers to upload files using the contact page."

Reviewer 3: Do you have the list of the accepted extensions? Just to test, I've tried to upload a .xls file and I got an error notification: `Bad file extension`.

Author: Yes, I just added them :)

2) **Default message**: This field allows the merchant to enter a default message that will be pre-filled while responding to a message.

> By default this field is filled with the following message: 

Reviewer 3: What an alliteration! 😎

Author: héhé :star_struck:

"Dear Customer,

Regards,
Customer service"

A tooltip is available: "Please fill out the message fields that appear by default when you answer a thread on the customer service page"

> A drop-down next to the field is displayed when there are several languages installed (disabled languages are diplayed in the drop-down). It allows to choose in which language the field is displayed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A drop-down next to the field is displayed when there are several languages installed (disabled languages are displayed in the drop-down). It allows choosing in which language the field is displayed and customizing the message according to the customer's language.
```

A tooltip is available: "Do not validate certificates from the TLS/SSL server. This is only needed if a server uses self-signed certificates."

**IMAP options (/tls):** If this toggle is enabled, PrestaShop will force the use of StartTLS to encrypt the connection. Servers that do not support StartTLS will be rejected.

A tooltip is available: "Force use of start-TLS to encrypt the seesion, and reject connection to servers that do not support it."

**IMAP options (/notls)** If this toggle is enabled, PrestaShop will not use StartTLS to encrypt the session, even with servers that support it.

A tooltip is available: "Do not user start-TLS to encrypt the session, even with servers that support it."

### Multistore

In a multistore context, the options listed above have [checkboxes](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/issues/19378) and [specific settings drop-down](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/issues/19330), take a look at the conditions and specs [here](https://github.com/PrestaShop/prestashop-specs/blob/master/back-office/multistoregeneralspecs.md)

### SAVE BUTTON

> When clicking on save, if all settings have well been saved, then a successfull message is displayed: "The settings have been successfully updated."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When clicking on save, if all settings have well been saved, then a successful message is displayed: "The settings have been successfully updated."
```

> If all IMAP fields are not filled and if you click on save, then the following information message is displayed: "IMAP configuration is not correct"

Reviewer 3: Is it blocking to save the configuration? Should it be a warning/error notification instead?

Author: It's not blocking to save the configuration, a message "The settings have been successfully updated." is displayed but the user is warned that the configuration is not correct

Reviewer 3: In other words, the user can save an incorrect IMAP configuration? I feel like this behavior could be improved but I don't know how problematic it can be. In my opinion, we should turn this information notification into a warning one, or at least rephrase it to emphasize the fact that the configuration saved must not be left invalid.

Author: Yes, the wording here is not really correct as it's not that the configuration is not correct but rather incomplete
Unless this message shows up in some other case that I haven't identified, but from what I see it shows until all IMAP fields are filled out.

Reviewer 3: I've looked into the documentation and it looks like the first 4 fields need to be filled to run the feature. So I suggest changing the behavior: IMAP URL, port, user, and password fields must be filled to be saved.

If the user tries to save an incomplete configuration, display an error notification: _Unable to save settings, please fill in all IMAP fields to configure your customer service options._ in _Admin.Catalog.Notification_.

If the user saves an incorrect configuration, display a warning notification (and not an information notification), cf. line 360 below.

@marionf, @Julievrz, what do you think?

Reviewer: @LouiseBonnard Is imap not being installed on the server considered as an incorrect configuration?

Reviewer 3: Sorry for my late reply! From what I know, the user can set options to configure IMAP. It is not required though.

But if he/she starts configuring it but does not complete all the fields, it is not incorrect but incomplete (= it won't work). And if he/she fills all the fields in but the configuration is wrong, it is incorrect (= it still does not work).

Author: Yes, that's it :)

Reviewer: I'm sorry but I don't understand which warning notification will be displayed in case of an incorrect configuration. 😅 
Is it "IMAP is not installed on this server"?

Reviewer: "IMAP is not installed", but how should we install it? Is "installing" and "configuring" the same? I'm lost sorry.🤣🤔

Reviewer: @LouiseBonnard What do you think of: 'IMAP could not be installed on the server.'

Reviewer 3: Very clear! I'd just add an element of solution to help users know what to do. For instance, _IMAP could not be installed on the server, check your configuration and try again._ or any other wording that could inform the merchants they need to check the information filled.

Reviewer: Yes, sounds great!

Author: I updated the notifications here: https://github.com/PrestaShop/prestashop-specs/pull/187/commits/5ae453058a2427a7e25d8afdc239663edd275743
Is it ok for you @Julievrz ?

Reviewer: Yes, perfect! thank you!

#### Search

Below, the same behavior as others listing:

By default, the search button is disabled. It becomes enabled when something is filled in a search field.

After clicking on "Search", the search is applied and the messages matching with the search are displayed

If no results are found, then a message "No records found" is displayed.

After clicking on "Search", this button is disabled and a "Reset" button is displayed.

After clicking on "Reset", the search is removed and all messages are displayed.

#### Pagination

The pagination of the list starts when there are more than 20 messages.

The merchant can select the number of messages displayed through a drop-down: 20, 50, 300, 1000

When there are more results than the number selected, the merchant can navigate through pages.

If a sort and/or a search have been done, results should be kept when moving on to the next page.

## CONTACT OPTIONS

The user can edit 2 options, which apply to all contacts:

1) **Allow file uploading**: This toggle allows the merchant to choose if he/she wants to allow his/her visitors to upload files through the contact form.

It's enabled by default.

> When enabled, an optional field "Attachment" is displayed in the front-office's contact form and a "choose file" CTA allows to select a file.

Author: ```suggestion
When enabled, an optional field "Attachment" is displayed in the front-office's contact form and a "choose file" CTA allows to select a file.

Only the following extension are accepted: pdf, txt, png, jpg, gif, zip.
Otherwise, an error notfication is displayed: "Bad file extension".
```

The action can be canceled by clicking on the cross or on the cancel button.

After clicking on "Delete" button, the message is deleted and a successful message is displayed "Successful deletion."

#### Search

Below, the same behavior as others listing:

By default, the search button is disabled. It becomes enabled when something is filled in a search field.

After clicking on "Search", the search is applied and the messages matching with the search are displayed

If no results are found, then a message "No records found" is displayed.

After clicking on "Search", this button is disabled and a "Reset" button is displayed.

After clicking on "Reset", the search is removed and all messages are displayed.

#### Pagination

The pagination of the list starts when there are more than 20 messages.

The merchant can select the number of messages displayed through a drop-down: 20, 50, 300, 1000

When there are more results than the number selected, the merchant can navigate through pages.

If a sort and/or a search have been done, results should be kept when moving on to the next page.

## CONTACT OPTIONS

> The user can edit 2 options, which apply to all contacts:

Author: ```suggestion
The user can edit 2 options, which apply to all customers / visitors:
```

# SPECIFICATIONS - CUSTOMERS SERVICE > CUSTOMERS SERVICE PAGE

## MOCKUPS

https://www.figma.com/proto/axasD3Kyg52okWHqvWPN1I/PrestaShop---Customer-Service-(migration)?node-id=12%3A4083&scaling=min-zoom

https://www.figma.com/proto/axasD3Kyg52okWHqvWPN1I/PrestaShop---Customer-Service-(migration)?node-id=12%3A5267&scaling=min-zoom

https://www.figma.com/proto/axasD3Kyg52okWHqvWPN1I/PrestaShop---Customer-Service-(migration)?node-id=12%3A9835&scaling=min-zoom

https://www.figma.com/proto/axasD3Kyg52okWHqvWPN1I/PrestaShop---Customer-Service-(migration)?node-id=12%3A8042&scaling=min-zoom

https://www.figma.com/proto/axasD3Kyg52okWHqvWPN1I/PrestaShop---Customer-Service-(migration)?node-id=12%3A11958&scaling=min-zoom

## MESSAGES NOTIFICATIONS

When a new message is sent by a customer or a visitor, then it's displayed in the notifications (bell) in the header.

> If you click on it, the thread is opened (view page) and all the messages notifications are removed.

Reviewer 4: Maybe add the info that the notification is removed for this user only (but since it's the general behavior for notifications, it's might not be useful).

Author: Nice catch, thank you @Robin-Fischer-PS :)

For example, let's say I have the following configuration:
- Group 1
  - Shop A
  - Shop B
- Group 2
  - Shop C
  
If I select group 1 as context, then the messages created in Shop A and Shop B will be displayed.

If I select Shop A as context, then the messages created in Shop A will be displayed.

If I select all shops as context, then the messages created in Shop A, Shop B and Shop C will be displayed.

#### Select all / unselect all checkbox

After checking the box, all the messages displayed on the page are selected or unselected.

#### Columns

There are 12 columns:

1) ID

It's possible to sort by id asc or desc and search by id.

2) Customer

The firstname and lastname are displayed if the customer was logged in while sending the message. Otherwise, "--" is displayed.

When it is the merchant, customer service, or any other contact, who writes to a customer, the customer's first name and last name are displayed too.

It's possible to sort by customer asc or desc and search by customer (firstname and/or lastname)

3) Email

The customer's email address is displayed.
It's possible to sort by email asc or desc and search by email

4) Type (contact)

> 

Reviewer 4: I don't know if it's useful to add this information, but when the contact is made via the "Add a message" in FO > User Account > Order History > Order, there is currently no "Type" of Contact in the listing (so "--" is displayed).

Author: Yes, good idea :+1: 
I added this here: https://github.com/PrestaShop/prestashop-specs/pull/187/commits/1c3f188a68e773b4f34de83849cce17b4e3c725b

> A tooltip is available: "Password to user to connecto to your IMAP server."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A tooltip is available: "Password to use to connect to your IMAP server."
```
